---
title: Tech De-risking Guide
description: 10x helps federal and state audiences deliver successful custom technology by providing actionable guidance on the realities of development. 
hero_banner:
  title: Taking the risk out of government tech projects
  subtitle: De-Risking Government Technology Guide
redirect_from: 
   - /projects/de-risking-government-technology-field-guides/
footer: every-solution-starts-as-an-idea
date: "2025-01-16"
slug: "de-risking-guide"
excerpt: "Government technology projects often fail, leading to costly budget overruns and negative impacts on the public. 10x is helping federal and state audiences deliver successful custom technology by providing actionable guidance on the realities of development."
theme: '4'
tags: Projects
---

<p class="usa-intro">  
    Government IT projects are often costly, risky, and prone to failure — but they don’t have to be
</p>

Government tech projects can be really challenging. Complex business rules, antiquated legacy systems, and multiple integrations with other systems make it difficult for them to succeed. However, it is so important that we get them right because the public is counting on them for benefits, services, and guidance.

10x developed the De-risking Guide to help digital teams successfully implement tech projects that are high quality and that adhere to best practices. The De-risking Guide provides teams with guidance on selecting software solutions and effectively collaborating with vendors. Originally launched in 2020, the guide has recently been updated.

After three phases, 10x shipped two de-risking field guides (one targeted to state audiences and the other to feds) for agencies to use when navigating the process of acquiring custom software from the private sector. The guides cover the basics of how modern software is built, which proved to be an unfamiliar process to many in government. In order for the field guides to have the desired impact, they needed to be useful, providing actionable guidance and integrating agile development theories with the constraints of government bureaucracy. 

This project is unique because it is the first project that redefined what an MVP on a 10x project could look like, as the final deliverable wasn’t a piece of technology, it was guidance.This stood in contrast to some of the projects that 10x had prioritized in the past, which focused on delivering elegantly engineered software tools. Embracing unknown outcomes led to positive results in this case, as the impact generated by the guides has exceeded our expectations. 

Our decisions are always based on evidence, not on hunches, and the team was always effective in proving the merits of the work and its potential, informing our decision to move it forward. Ultimately, 10x concluded this project in Phase 3 as it made an impact early on and did not require further investment. The project graduated successfully and we are pleasantly thrilled at the reception and adoption of our guides.